Title: Project: Ski Press: Part 2 - Planning The Press Surfaces
Date: 2014-03-12 19:05
Author: Geek42
Category: Ski Press
Tags: base, beams, CAD, dimensional lumber, FreeCAD, plywood, projects, ski press, width, wood
Slug: project-ski-press-part-2-planning-the-press-surfaces
Status: published

The press surface is what holds the parts together. There are two parts,
top and bottom, that will be under nearly identical stresses. On the
other hand, the bottom one needs to have either the same or less flex as
the top. This is because the shape of the ski is defined by the mould,
and that part rests directly on the bottom. The top presses on the ski
via the air bladder, so if it deforms a bit more, that is not a big
issue. Either way we have to make both of these very stiff.

<img src="/images/Pic2.png" style="width: 800px; max-width: 100%; height: auto;" alt="Ski Press With Base" />

I rendering of the ski press with supports and base in the corner of my
workshop. Dark and light blue are the alternating layers of dimensional
lumber and plywood.

<!--more-->  
The design that I am using as a, very rough, guide, used laminated 2 X
12 lumber and plywood. I don't know what the dimensions of the plywood
or the width of the surface is, but I do know what I want. Right now I'm
going for 300mm wide opening, and that needs a lot of boards. I just
don't know how many, or which combination is best. A quick trip to
Google docs and I was able to whip together a spreadsheet that helped
out. Plug in the width of the opening, and it will calculate the values
I want to know for different thicknesses of plywood.

What values do I want? I want to know how much it will intrude into the
support beam, and how close the edge of the support beam will be to the
center of a piece of non-plywood(closer is better). With the current
values I think that a platform 341mm wide(only 300 usable) consisting of
7 pieces of 2 X 12 X 10' lumber with 6 pieces of 1/2" plywood would be
best. Interestingly, if I drop about an inch on the opening width and
use 270mm, suddenly 5/8" plywood becomes the best option. I've not
locked down the opening dimension yet, still designing it, and so I made
sure that I could easily recalculate if needed, but for now I will go
with these figures.

A quick trip to the CAD software and we have an updated drawing. I setup
8 of the 8 X 8 beams to be the full height of the garage, but I don't
expect to need that. I will probably bring them down to just above the
press top once ready, and may remove some of the side ones and replace
them with 8 X 8 support feet. Also the height off the ground of the
platform is arbitrary at this time, and will probably be changed to
match the height of my main workbench when it is not resting on it's
wheels.

Jared
