Title: Spiced Maple and Brown Sugar Glazed Salmon Cooked on a Cedar Plank
Date: 2012-03-02 12:25
Author: GeekFortyTwo
Category: Cooking, Downhill Skiing, Recipes, Uncategorized
Tags: brown sugar, cedar, maple, salmon, spices
Slug: 316
Status: draft

I have been meaning to put this recipie up for about a month, about the
time we tried it. It was my turn to cook dinner for the Saturday night
crew at the ski hill, and I wanted to do a version of something that I
had enjoyed in the past: Salmon cooked on a cedar plank. Since our
resident vegetarian was out of town, this was the perfect time to try it
without torturing them. It's a simple cooking technique, but the tastes
are amazing, the smells are delicious and you can do it at home with
stuff you already probably have.  
<!--more-->  
To start, this is not the cheapest meal to make, salmon is not cheap and
cedar planks can cost a bit if you don't plan ahead. Go to your local
fish provider and let them know what you are doing, they can recommend
the proper cuts to ensure it cooks properly. I had some side cuts, with
the skin still on, about 6 inches by 1.5 - 2.5 inches in size. Since I
was feeding a larger group I picked up 8 pieces. Additionally I was
running late when I went to get the stuff I needed for this, so I picked
up three of the cedar planks they have at the store for this purpose.
You don't have to buy these overpriced pieces of scrap wood, if you go
to the lumber store you can get untreated cedar for a song and they will
cut it too. (Do NOT get treated cedar, the chemicals are poison, when in
doubt pay more for the ones at the grocery store.) The rest of the
ingredients were all at my house so I packed them up in a cooler and
headed up to the hill.

Spiced Maple and Brown Sugar Glazed Salmon Cooked on a Cedar Plank
==================================================================

Ingredients
-----------

*Most measurements are approximate, I did not really try to be exact. I
also doubled this recipie for the 8 peices I made.*

-   2 tsp paprika
-   1 tsp chili powder
-   1/8 tsp ground cumin
-   1/4 tsp garlic powder
-   1 tbsp chopped thyme(fresh if you can)
-   1/2 cup brown sugar
-   1/2 tsp sea salt(regular will do)
-   1 3lb salmon filet or 3-4 slices of a filet, with skin
-   3 tbsp maple syrup
-   1 tbsp butter(melted)
-   2-4 small pads of butter
-   1-3 small cedar cooking planks

Directions
----------

About one hour before your meal, start soaking the cedar planks in clean
water, use a weight to keep them under water. In one hour you will have
cedar scented water, and some soaked boards that will resist burning. Go
set your barbecue to medium high, 400F. Take your salmon and place it
skin side down on the cedar(removed from the water by now). If you are
using individual pieces, make sure they have a bit of room between them.
Take all the spices and mix them up with the brown sugar in a bowl. It
is suggested that you massage in the maple syrup into the salmon, which
I did, but I then proceeded to drizzle more all over the top of them.
Rub in the spice/sugar mixture and add more maple(you can never have
enough). Place some pads of butter on top of the salmon, spread out or
one on each piece. Place the planks on your barbecue, keep them on there
for 15-25 minutes and monitor for any wood getting too close to catching
right on fire. When cooked it should flake away with a fork nicely or be
nice and firm to a finger press.

Serving
-------

The salmon on the cedar plank is visually appealing and make for a good
serving platform directly. The bottom of the plank is usually charred,
so place it on something that can get dirty(maybe some paper towels) and
place it in the center of the table. A spatula should lift them onto
your place with the skin attached and you can add veggies or other sides
to the meal.

Variety
-------

One thing that I actually did to have some options was to do a pair of
the salmon pieces with a dijon mustard glaze. This is really simple,
don't do any of the maple/brown sugar/spice stuff, just coat the pieces
in a thick coating of dijon mustard and cook the same as above(I did
them at the exact same time). The dijon mustard developed a crust and
cooked nicely into the salmon. We shared them for a separate taste and
to have a bit more fish in our meal.

Jared
