Title: Hiking: Lusk Cavern, Gatineau Park
Date: 2011-07-24 17:30
Author: GeekFortyTwo
Category: Hiking
Tags: endomondo, exploration, explore, flashlight, fun, gatineau park, hiking, lusk cavern, water, wet
Slug: hiking-lusk-cavern-gatineau-park
Status: published

A great day for a hike, the sun was shining, the weather was not too hot
and we were rearing to go. We headed out and picked up a friend to go
hiking with us, and drove up to Lac Philippe to park. As were were in
the park headed for our normal parking spot we found out that we had to
park about 1km further away due to the road damage from the rains of
earlier this year, so we parked at the first beach and loaded up our
gear. The hike to the cave itself was average, we didn't rush it and
arrived within reasonable time. Once there we proceeded to explore the
caves.  
<!--more-->  
<iframe src="http://www.endomondo.com/embed/workouts?w=qBxqAzf8RzE&amp;width=600&amp;height=600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" width="600" height="600"></iframe>  
Via [Endomondo](http://www.endomondo.com/workouts/qBxqAzf8RzE)

It was not our first time to the cave, but our friend had never been
there. If you have not had a chance to go to the Lusk Cavern, I highly
recommend it. You should, however, know that you will get wet, need a
flashlight and probably should not bring your good clothes. Our
exploration the first time through was mostly to be sure the friend was
OK with being in a cave and was comfortable wandering in a place that is
hard to get lost(follow the water). As we were approaching the lower
part of the second section she start to explore some of the side tunnels
and crawled into a narrow section to take a look. Taking this as a sign
that we were ready to wander a bit more in the cave we headed back up to
the top of the cave and went back inside.

This second time we explored the upper platforms near the entrance.
These were the floor of the cave during the ice ages, having been carved
away in many areas by the stream that has continued for thousands of
years. It's broken up and you have to cross 2-6 foot drops once in a
while as you criss-cross the stream. You cannot do the whole tunnel this
way, but if you push it as far as you can and then search around the
openings you will find an interesting way out of the caves that takes
you out another arm of the cave that does not have water(but is low and
muddy). We did not decide to take this route and proceeded down into the
stream to get past the massive boulder from a roof collapse long ago.

Past the boulder we found another ledge(just as it makes the right hand
turn that leads to the deeper water) that looked accessible, and after
shining our flashlights around a bit we found that you could get onto
the ledge from either side of the cave. A little scrambling later and we
had found a room that was fun to hang out in for a bit. Our friend had
brought an ocarina she is learning to play and we messed with the others
in the cave(it is packed on a day like today) by playing some random
tunes she knows. Haunting music from nowhere in a cave is perfect for
the mood of the place. I noticed that there was a crawl(on my belly)
space heading back with some sunlight coming in and decided to explore
back there some. A little wiggling(nothing too tight) and I was able to
get into an open area that could easily fit 4 people. There was
condensation drops all over the rocks in there that were illuminated
quite nicely in my headlamp light. Further along in the crawl was
another large room and more sunlight coming. It leads to an exit
opposite the normal middle cave exit. This is obviously a well known way
into and out of the cave as there is a beaten path to it. It's fun to do
if you have the time and clothing you don't mind turning brown.

We came back in to grab some gear we had left behind when we were
crawling around the caves and headed back out the normal way from the
upper cave. We were out of time, so we headed to collect our packs and
start the hike back to the car. There was nothing special about the
hike, enjoyable and productive. It was interesting to see the damage to
some of the beaches due to the rains and washouts, even though there was
almost no flow in the cave, and I hope they are able to repair the
damage quickly so people can continue to enjoy the area.

Feel free to ask me any questions about the cave and the hike, it's one
of my favorites, and I have done my research. You don't' have to know
what you are doing to explore this cave, and the largest creatures you
will encounter and the small fishes. I'll add some photos if any turned
out, I was not really trying on these ones, more here to play and
explore this time.

Jared
