Title: 2KM: Short Run
Date: 2014-01-15 20:39
Author: Geek42
Category: Running
Tags: breathing, calf, calves, endomondo, five fingers, form, pace, Running, stretch, stride, vibram
Slug: 2km-short-run
Status: published

With my math on my run distance spreadsheet being rounded to the nearest
KM, my short run and mid distance run are both 2KM this week. So I will
call this my short run.<!--more-->\[iframe
src="http://www.endomondo.com/embed/workouts?w=mydtTTCMtuo&width=580&height=600&width=950&height=600"
width="950" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"\]

I decided to run the main 2KM loop in the other direction, in order to
avoid getting into a pattern. I have to remember that there are
sidewalks on both sides of most of these streets and use them.

My first KM down to the bottom of the falls was great, and I was trying
to ensure I didn't brake too much on the downhill sections, as it feels
like a waste of energy and wear on the shoes. Because this is what I was
focusing on, I failed to notice that my pace was up, a lot.

On the uphill section in the second KM, I really felt the speed and
slowed a little. I was also loosing form on my running, letting my heel
touch solidly(not too hard) on each stride in the steepest part. Once
back on flat ground I was able to keep closer to form.

Breathing was harder then usual on the whole run, with my diaphragm
threatening stitches in my side much of the time. Careful timing of my
breathing to ensure it did not match my pace perfectlyÂ  was probably
what save me some pain.

Turns out I was going way faster then I expected, and I suspect that was
the cause of my problems. I need to find a way to maintain my pace
better over time. Slow may not win the race, but steady does.

Did some short stretching of my legs after the run, and my muscles feel
much better for it. I need to keep that up.

Jared
