Title: SSH access to aux port on Cisco router
Date: 2012-04-02 15:22
Author: GeekFortyTwo
Category: Uncategorized
Slug: 304
Status: draft

I often pick up hardware that is being disposed of, but is still usable
in a non-production environment. Among my many pieces of hardware is a
serial controlled power relay. This device has eight power plugs that
can each be indipendentaly controlled. I use this to allow me to power
off systems and components that I am not using in my server rack to save
power. Since the majority of the hardware does not need to be on at all
times, this means I get to save some money. One problem I have had with
this setup is that I need to leave a system on to connect using the
inteface program that is provided for windows. I have been using my
media center system, but that is inconvenient for scripting and general
remote access. Another option I explore here, is using my Cisco 1811 and
the AUX serial port to connect to the device and in the future script
management of the ports.  
<!--more-->  
Since I first started working with Cisco hardware, not that long ago, I
have wondered what I could do with the AUX port that seems to be on most
routers. The ASA 5500 series had them, but I never dug into it too
deeply, all the docs said that the port was reserved for future use.
When I started working with my Cisco 1811 at home, I found that this was
not the same. The port could be used for a number of features, including
connecting to the console port of another Cisco or a serial modem. These
were the standard uses, but I figured I could get this working with my
power controller some way, and with a text mode interface I should be
able to script control of the device from a web server.

On further research I found initially that you can configure the device
to support [telnet on a specific
port](http://ciscofaq.blogspot.com/2005/05/how-to-i-reverse-telnet-out-my-aux.html)
and connect directly to the device. This is insecure, but easy to setup.
Further digging showed I could setup [SSH on a different
port](http://etherealmind.com/cisco-ios-reverse-ssh-terminal-server-console-access/)
to access serial devices. This is better, but the config is still more
then really is necessary. Finally I found that just using a [special
username when you login using normal
SSH](http://etherealmind.com/cisco-ios-reverse-ssh-terminal-server-console-access-part2/)
can give you access to a port. This is what I needed. Here are the Cisco
documents referring to [this
feature](http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_3t/12_3t11/feature/guide/gt_rssh.html).

I also needed to build a cable that would go from the AUX port to my
device. Based on the information I could infer from my current config
and online, I figured that the power controller was wired for serial
connections like a modem(as a DCE). I just needed to get the wiring
figured out for an AUX to modem connection. I grabbed a cheap serial to
RJ45 adapter, figured out the wires in it(seems to be random really, so
I guess you check each time) and tested out a connection that could use
a standard ethernet cable to run to the port.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Serial Pin\   Serial Signal   Cable Pin\   My Cable Colour  
 DB9                           RJ45         (Yours WILL vary)
  ------------- --------------- ------------ ---------------------------------------------
  1             CD              nc           nc

  2             Tx              6            <span style="color: #ffff00;">yellow</span>

  3             Rx              3            <span style="color: #808080;">black</span>

  4             DSR             2            <span style="color: #ff6600;">orange</span>

  5             Gnd             4 & 5        <span style="color: #008000;">green</span>

  6             DTR             7            <span style="color: #a52a2a;">brown</span>

  7             CTS             1            <span style="color: #0000ff;">blue</span>

  8             RTS             8            white

  9             RI              nc           nc
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Access to devices connected to the aux port over ssh:  
First: telnet:
http://ciscofaq.blogspot.com/2005/05/how-to-i-reverse-telnet-out-my-aux.html  
Then: ss  
h on different port number:
http://etherealmind.com/cisco-ios-reverse-ssh-terminal-server-console-access/  
Then: ssh on normal port, different username:
http://etherealmind.com/cisco-ios-reverse-ssh-terminal-server-console-access-part2/  
Cisco docs:
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12\_3t/12\_3t11/feature/guide/gt\_rssh.html

Now how do I disconnect?
