Title: 5KM: Snowy and Sore
Date: 2014-01-29 09:37
Author: Geek42
Category: Running
Tags: -18C, cold, endomondo, five fingers, form, pace, pain, personal best, Running, slow, snow, sore, vibram
Slug: 5km-snowy-and-sore
Status: published

Monday's run was a snowy run, the sidewalks were cleared, but not clear,
and I was running on some very soft surfaces for much of the run.
Luckily it was rarely loose powder. I did fall once, of no consequence,
but it's the first time I've fallen running. Luckily I was a block from
the Hospital if it had been bad.<!--more-->\[iframe
src="http://www.endomondo.com/embed/workouts?w=gu\_aNTOfxjA&width=580&height=600&width=950&height=600"
width="950" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"\]

My original plan to find 5KM to run was to do about 3 laps of downtown,
but when I reach the top of Mill St I decided to keep going, cut through
the library parking lot and go run down Church St. Looping back to the
arena and Mill St allowed me to run in the reverse direction to that I
had come. This added a bunch of distance and I was able to finish with a
run to the end of Maude St and back.

The plows had cleared the sidewalks, but they had not made a point of
getting rid of the snow, just done enough to clear a path to walk on. If
I had not been in the 5 Fingers shoes I would have been fine on this,
but for some reason the soft areas and weird footing really did a number
on the tendon in the arch on my right foot. Left foot was fine. I've had
pain there before, and this was similar, but it was the first time in
these shoes.Â  I've decided to skip the next run, in order to allow my
foot to heal a bit.

All this slowed me down, but still didn't need to take a walking break,
which is good as I want to avoid that. Oddly enough, when I checked the
stats on this, I had two personal best times, for 3 Miles and 5KM. I
guess my slow is still better then my past speeds. I hope to beat those
times in the future, but I'm still happier with the run now that I see
that.

It's still weird to have my eyebrows and eyelashes build up frost and
melt when I get in, but I am getting used to it. The Bluebuds X
headphones held up fine and I setup Endomondo to do voice prompts. That
one need tweaking for what I have it tell me, and how often. I really
have to find my heart rate monitor for future runs.

Jared
