Title: UrbanQuest: Ottawa - For The Birds
Date: 2011-07-31 20:59
Author: GeekFortyTwo
Category: Eating Out, Exploration
Tags: Atomic Rooster, Bank St, bird, blackberry, canada, dinner, dinosaur, diorama, Elgin St, explore, fun, glass, museum, Museum of Nature, nature walk, neighbour, Ottawa, provinces, pub, quest, Urban Quest
Slug: urbanquest-ottawa-for-the-birds
Status: published

Well, today we decided to finally try out [Urban
Quest](http://www.urbanquest.com) here in Ottawa. The basic idea is that
you spend some time in a part of Ottawa figuring out some puzzles and
once you have all of them solved you are able to go to their website to
unlock the location and name of the restaurant that you have
reservations for. It costs about \$20 / team, so you can pay once and
take a bunch of your friends out with you. We invited our neighbors
along and they accepted the invitation. We decided on the "For The
Birds" quest as it takes place entirely, except the dinner, in the
[Museum of Nature](http://www.nature.ca). We signed up, bought the
quest(via PayPal, but you do not need a PayPal account) and printed out
the clue sheets. We were off!  
<!--more-->  
Once there we took a bit to look around at the new renovations. None of
us had been there since they updated and re-opened to the public and we
found the new glass foyer was striking and a real treat from the 4th
floor. We broke out the question sheet and went to find the answers in
the dinosaur section. The questions were not too hard and we were able
to find all the answers we need to complete the first part of the final
puzzle. We did notice information saying that all the answers were on
the back sheet, but we didn't need them yet. Our second task took us to
the Canadian dioramas on the second floor, we had to go take a look at
all of them and get to know where they all were from in order to answer
the second part of the final puzzle. Again we had no problems and we
enjoyed looking and learning about all the stuff there.

The third puzzle required some basic math and a lot of reading labels,
luckily it's fun to see all the different birds on the top floor. We had
to track down a bunch of them, and they were all over the exhibit. From
small to large we found them all and did the math, requiring us to find
some more birds by their numbers. We finally had the last part of the
final puzzle and quickly were able to find the answer to it(it was
obvious, but that's fine by that point you are trying to solve it to be
sure you got everything right. IF you get here, you will know the
answer). We headed to the website on a Blackberry and entered the
answer. Unfortunately the mobile version would not accept any form of
the answer, and it was simple enough that there were only 3 ways it
could be typed. Luckily my phone could access the non-mobile
site(barely, it does not agree with the zooming in on the torch browser
and hides the login box when you do). We were able to login and put in
the answer, which we had by then verified by checking on the final cheat
sheet page. We were advised that reservations had been made for us at
the pub [Atomic Rooster](http://www.atomicrooster.ca/).

We have never been to this restaurant, but have heard of it, so we
headed over and parked just of Bank street. We headed in just as the
live blues was about to start and sat down for dinner. Across the board
we all ordered pub food, a Ruben, a veggie wrap, a steak sandwich and a
veggie burger. The food was good, the music was nice and the service was
excellent. If you want some pub food and are in the area, I would
recommend the place. The music was loud, but that was not unexpected
with a live band playing a bunch of cover songs, but it did limit
conversation some.

Having completed our quest and dinner we walked down to [Sugar
Mountain](http://www.sugarmountain.ca/) on Elgin street to get way too
much sugar and wandered our way back to the car at Bank. It was a lovely
evening, with a good breeze and nice temperature. It was a great end to
a good evening. We will definitely be headed out on another [Urban
Quest](http://www.urbanquest.com/) in the future, we just hope that the
mobile site is fixed by then(we will let them know it gave us problems,
I'm not expecting anyone else to do it).

Jared
