Title: Project: Ski Press: Part 1 - Beginning Design
Date: 2014-03-09 19:53
Author: Geek42
Category: Ski Press
Tags: CAD, carving, design, draft, FreeCAD, garage, projects, ski, ski press, skiing
Status: published

Alright, I have wanted to make a ski press forever, so I could make my
own skis and snowboards. Now that I have my new shop, I have the ability
to actually get this done. First thing I have to do is design the beast
of a press. Well, first think I really have to do is learn to design,
and so I start with learning to do some CAD work using a free, open
tool: [FreeCAD](http://www.freecadweb.org/ "FreeCAD").

<img src="/images/Pic1.png" style="width: 800px; max-width: 100%; height: auto;" alt="Corner of my garage." />

<!--more-->First I had to learn some of the basics of using CAD
software, and I don't have a budget for CAD software. A little(and I do
mean small amount) of searching Google later and I came upon
[FreeCAD](http://www.freecadweb.org/) and installed it on my system. I
then followed some of the basic tutorials on the website on how to make
basic shapes. Within no time I felt I had the skills to do a rendering
of the basic shapes that I wanted to work with.

A quick trip out to the shop, and a round with a tape measurer, and I
had the dimensions I needed to do a basic rendering of the corner I was
planning on working with. The press will be running along the back wall,
and be as wide as it needs to be(with a maximum of 101cm due to the
window). Based on one of the requested features for skis that I build, I
have decided to make the press able to take up to 3m long skis. An
additional constraint is that I don't know how to work with steel at
all, and therefore need to build this out of wood. It will make it
bulky, but it can be done.

With this information, I generated the render above. The software is
easy to use for basic shapes, and I hope to learn more details, like the
drafting diagrams that it can do, in the future. It is also scriptable
in python, which is great, as I want to see about creating a macro that
can generate a base ski geometry from general parameters(radius, length,
widths, etc) for me to start with.

Now that I have the corner of my garage ready, I need to start building
the press in it. That can come in part 2.

Jared
