Title: Project: Ski Press: Part 3 â€“ Planning the Layout
Date: 2014-03-14 22:12
Author: Geek42
Category: Ski Press
Tags: beams, CAD, compressor, design, dual tank, projects, ski, ski press, wood
Slug: project-ski-press-part-3-planning-the-layout
Status: published

Some more work tonight on the ski press planning. First, I realized that
if I was going to be able to make 3m long skis, I was going to need a
press that was a bit longer. Why 3m? Because that was a request I go,
and I'm looking for strange. I bumped up the length to 12 feet(lumber
comes in imperial sizes), widened the opening to about 17 inches and
removed the individual boards from the work surface objects, mostly due
to the fact that I'm still planning them, and doing it manually is way
too much work.

<img src="/images/Pic3.png" style="width: 800px; max-width: 100%; height: auto;" alt="Current Ski Press Layout"/>

This image shows the top and bottom work surfaces, the support
legs(pink) and the crossing support beams(orange).

<!--more-->  
I've added some more math to my spreadsheets, which are helping me
immensely in this work(a tonne of that is just working with metric and
imperial, the CAD software is set to mm because I want to, and the
lumber is imperial). With my changed work surface width, I was able to
recalculate the dimensions and boards required instantly. Added some
conditional formatting and it now tells me which option is the best for
plywood thickness. I brought down the tops of the standing beams to
about 8 inches above the upper cross beam(should be the same thickness
as the beam itself, if I stick with a 8x8 beam). I moved some of the
legs underneath the work surface for support to ensure downward
deflection is minimal, but I think I will add a cross beam on top of
those to help with the support.

One major change was to not have the center beams go past the lower work
surface. This was done because of the extended length I added. Those
extra two feet will make it difficult or impossible to load in the
templates and skis from the end of the press. By using this layout, I
can load the hardware in from the side. I will be adding clamps that
will need to be applied in the mid sections to reduce deflection, but
those are not yet figured out. There should be room under this to store
some of the hardware(think air compressor) and I will see about building
a shelf on the top(it is just over 2 meters high, or 6 foot 8 inches) to
store some of the larger raw materials and parts for the templates.

Speaking of the air compressor, I'm thinking of using something like
[this one](http://www.allpoweramerica.com/#!apc4007/cr53) by All Power.
Saw a version in the local tool shop a few months back, at a good price.
The system can run the press for the time needed, and if I want to go
portable, I don't have to bring the whole thing with me(but I can).
Still thinking on [that
one](http://media.wix.com/ugd/76cc75_4f290dc882585feb9a49b0b8dc3b8f0e.pdf).

Overall the design is closer, I think, then ever to the point where I
start ordering wood.

Jared
